Congratulations on working
through all those SQL lessons.
You should really be proud of yourself.
You've now learned everything you need to
know to retrieve the data that will allow
you to start figuring out how to increase
Dognition's test completion rate,
which is the business problem Dognition
would like us to help them solve.
You're ready to start our analysis, right?
Mm, not quite yet.
I love that you are excited to jump in.
And believe me, I am really excited
to analyze the Dognition dataset too.
But here's what you need to think about.
Your job as a business analyst isn't
just to do something exciting.
It's to do something that will clarify
exactly what a business should do to solve
a problem.
In other words, to create value.
And even more, it's to do this as
quickly and efficiently as possible, and
preferably in a fashion that allows you
to update the people invested in your
project, or your stake holders,
on your progress.
I am going to give you a piece of advice
from years of data analysis which I talk
about a lot in the Data Visualization and
Communication with Tableau
course in this specialization.
Do not enter a data analysis project,
don't even start looking at the data,
without a structured analysis plan.
And the bigger the data,
the more structured the plan should be.
Remember I mentioned in an earlier in the
video that a data analysis project needs
to provide insight into business processes
that a business has the ability and
willingness to improve in
order to create new value.
Data analysts need to always be
thinking about the following questions.
What questions will provide
actionable insight?
Will the answers to my questions matter?
Are the answers to my questions correct?
We talked about the last question
when we were learning how to write
aggregate queries.
Now it's time to talk about
the first two questions.
You may have heard the term
analysis paralysis before.
It's a real thing.
It's what happens when you are so
overwhelmed by all the ways you can
analyze a dataset that you
end up doing nothing at all.
Even more dangerous, though,
is what I call analysis free-for-all.
This is when you just start analyzing
whatever seems fun or interesting.
When you do that, you end up with
all kinds of interesting but
disconnected results that you
don't know how to make sense of,
even if you've been implementing complex
beautiful graphs and analyses for months.
When you have to present what you
found to your stakeholders using this
analysis strategy, you may be able to
piece together some type of desperate
data story from the different
analyses you've tried.
But the story usually has little to do
with the original business problem that
needed to be solved.
The dangers of analysis paralysis and
analysis free-for-all start
at the very beginning, when you want to
begin playing around with the data so
that you can get a feel for
what they tell you.
Although playing around is useful and
actually necessary, you
can also end up biasing your strategy in
ways that may be irrelevant to your goals.
So it is very important that you have
a plan about exactly what analyses you
are going to implement to address the
business problems it's your job to solve
before you start running analysis.
The plan should be inspired by
these two guiding questions.
We don't have time to go over exactly how
to make analysis plans in this course, but
I described one of my favorite
methods in the Data Visualization and
Communication with Tableau course
earlier in this specialization.
I call that method structured
pyramid analysis plans, or SPAPs.
Since we won't be able to
make one together right now,
I provided an outline for
you in the course materials.
In essence, what you will see is
a specific, measurable, attainable,
relevant and time-bound goal for
the project, otherwise known as S.M.A.R.T.
Goal, at the top of the pyramid.
The variables you will use to assess the
goal will be written underneath the goal.
And underneath those variables you will
see ever-widening layers of categories and
subcategories of issues that will be
important to analyze in order to achieve
your S.M.A.R.T. Goal.
Under normal circumstances these
categories would be derived from
conversations with your stakeholders and
your analysis team during a process called
elicitation, to make sure the categories
are relevant to the solutions your
company is willing and able to implement.
One of the features of the SPAP
framework is that you are supposed
write down the exact variable or
column name you need
to address a question about a certain
category or subcategory of factors.
The utility of the steps should be much
more clear, now that you are actually
the one who will be writing the SQL
queries to retrieve the data for analysis.
The more specific you can be about
what variables you need to analyze,
the more able you will be to
determine whether it's actually
possible to analyze those variables given
the tables you have in your database.
Being clear about what variables you
need and how you will combine them
will also make it much easier and more
efficient for you to proceed through and
write the appropriate SQL queries for
each category of questions.
Another thing we learned about
in Data Visualization and
Communication with Tableau is that data
analysis only plays a role in one or
two parts of the life cycle of
a data analysis project, and
SQL queries play an even more
constrained role than that.
SQL queries are solely in this
part of the project life cycle,
where we're retrieving the data and
making computations.
Of course, the SQL queries are absolutely
critical for the project to be successful,
which is why data analysts who know how
to use SQL queries are so highly coveted.
But it's important to keep in mind that
queries are just one part of your job.
You need to make sure that you
are implementing queries that address
the right questions in the right way to
lead you towards a strong hypothesis about
what business changes could
achieve your S.M.A.R.T. Goal.
With that in mind, I'm going to do
my best in the next few lessons,
taking into consideration that
our primary goal is to learn SQL,
to make those SQL queries we practiced
address real analysis questions that could
help us arrive at some insights
to present to Dognition.
The analysis questions I address
will be based on the SPAP I
included in the course materials.
When you start doing SQL
queries in your own business,
I highly recommend that you make
a similar analysis plan for yourself.
If you need help learning how to do that,
please refer to the materials posted
in week one of Data Visualization and
Communication with Tableau
in this specialization.
Now that we know about analysis plans,
let's go help Dognition solve
their business problem.